well Israel's war has taken an
unprecedented toll on gaza's entire
population the United Nations says 1.9
million Palestinians that's more than
85% of gaza's population have now been
uprooted from their homes tens of
thousands of people pushed to Rafa in
the South which has become the most
densely populated area in Gaza there is
little food and no sanitation the UN
says around 2.2 million people nearly
the entire population of Gaza need food
food Aid to survive there's a shortage
of f Fuel and clean drinking water
desalination plants have shut down
because they don't have fuel to operate
and the World Health Organization is
worried about the outbreak of disease
doctors are recording thousands of cases
of diarrhea among children as well as
cases of he hepatitis A menitis
chickenpox jordis and respiratory
illnesses but only 11 out of gaza's 36
hospitals are functioning but only
partially and they are struggling to
treat the tens of thousands of injured
Palestinians omana spolarich is the
president of the international Committee
of the Red Cross he joins me now from
Geneva thanks very much for being with
us so um we just gave a a summary there
of just how acute the situation is uh
for people um in Gaza and it's it's a
whole list of things as as we uh
mentioned there it's it's the lack of
food lack of Sanitation and perhaps the
most pressing uh problem right now the
one that's that's been growing more most
recently is the the breakout of
disease good afternoon I've just
returned from Israel and the West Bank
and visited Gaza before that I can
confirm that in Gaza this humanitarian
situation is untenable there's a lack of
everything there's a lack of of
operational space for the humanitarian
actors but most importantly there's an
acute lack of Safety and Security for
the people anywhere in
Gaza uh so just talk to us a little bit
more about the work that your that your
organization is doing or trying to do
given the conditions uh right now as far
as uh getting getting the aid uh to
people uh in Gaza is is some Aid getting
in
some Aid is getting in there's a number
of trucks coming in but this is by far
not enough given the suffering and the
level of the needs of the people we are
focusing our operations on on the
hospitals on providing medical
assistance as much as we can including
through Medical Teams surgeons that are
there operating Around the Clock what I
saw in the hospital that I visited was a
total exhaustion a density
um because people are seeking refuge in
these hospitals but what I also saw is a
lack of medication a lack of electricity
a lack of water that is necessary for
the hospitals to run um but most
importantly uh decreasing surgical
capability given the high number of
casualties and wounded people this is a
serious problem that we are facing at
the moment and we still have great
difficulties in moving around in
bringing more material and also in
rotating our staff and Medical Teams
indeed and we got a sense of just how
desperate the situation uh is there uh
for people with the the pictures of the
the a truck coming in and and people
descending uh on those trucks to to get
whatever they could water Provisions
anything they could get their hands on
you you get the sense uh as well that
there there's kind of been a a complete
breakdown in order there
what I can see is that there's no
adequate humanitarian response possible
under current circumstances there has to
be a serious deescalation under the
current level of hostilities and
operations ongoing we will not be able
to provide adequate humanitarian
assistance none of us none of the
humanitarian access actors there's no
protection there's no safe spaces for
people who have been displaced multiple
times and with winter coming very fast
this is going to be an acute problem we
have to resume the provision of critical
Services notably electricity and water
we are asking for our repair teams to be
allowed in the ICC has the capability of
working with the local actors to at
least repair what is POS possible to be
repaired to be able to improve the
access to water the access to essential
needs good to talk to you
thanks very much for being with
us thank you